Hello and welcome to Step 8 implementing the NTN Arnon meaning a record and neural network with a mixture
density and network output layer.
So you've just seen the record a neural network intuition lectures as well as the mixture density network
intuition lectures with Curiel.
And now back together we're going to implement from scratch the NTN Arnon.
So just to make sure everybody is on the same page.
What we're about to implement here is of course this component of the full world model which will be
the component that will allow the AI to remember better the time related correlations in the dream environment
and not in the real environment.
That's the beauty of this model to predict better and better actions which will maximize the reward
inside the environment.
All right so no worries you will learn more about this reward system in Step 9 reinforcement learning.
But before this indeed we need to implement this before we move on to the controller that will eventually
play the final actions.
So just before we move on to Python Let me show you what you must absolutely look at in one of the essential
resources of discourse which is this amazing article on the full world model written by the original
authors and the section that you must have with you when implementing this is of course this one engine
Arnon and what you must absolutely understand is that this part of the full world model that we're about
to implement is the part that models the probability of the next latent vector given the action that
was just played.
The current latent vector and the current hidden state.
And then the very important thing to understand about the the end and especially its role in the Arnon
is that instead of returning the late invoke disease in a deterministic way it will return them with
a probability distribution meaning that it will return them sarcastically.
Therefore it's just like what we did with this.
And we you know classic our encoder returns to late and vectors in a deterministic way.
And we added this variational plugin to return them to caustically.
And here we are doing exactly the same.
Instead of returning the latest vector deterministically we're returning it with a probability distribution
which means we're going to sample it from this probability distribution in order to predict the next
state and therefore what it will allow the full world model to do is to predict basically the future
and this is exactly what it says here.
The role of the model is to predict the future.
But you have to understand inside the dream but clearly it works.
It improves significantly the performance.
All right.
And then don't forget also to check out the appendix because indeed in the appendix you get more details
on while not only the variational are incredible.
So what we're about to implement which is the mixture density in that work plus regular neural network.
So you have more details here.
This is the classic Arnon.
But as the output layer of this classic Arnon we are adding the gashing mixture which therefore will
return to caustically the latent vectors which represent basically predictions of the future because
as we can see in the full world moral Grafix the latent disease is an input of the controller.
So basically the control will take as input the latent back disease of the variational or enquirers
but also the hidden state age returned by the Indian Arnon and it will take these two inputs and return
the final action to play inside the environment and at the same time you have to be aware of this retro
action loob meaning that the hidden state is given back into the Indian Arnon because indeed this will
help predict better the new latent vectors Z in a sticky lastic way.
According to this probability distribution given the gashing mixture.
All right so let's implement all this on life by now we will structure the code so that you can clearly
see first the Arnon part of the Indian Arnon and then separately the Gulshan mixture apart.
That is the end and part of the Arnon in a separate code section and eventually just like what we did
for the V8.
We will implement a separate section for the training operations and therefore the code structure will
be as follows exactly the same as what we did for the Wii.
First we will import the libraries but they will be the same as for the Wii in terms of flow.
Then we'll build the engine arning model within a class then same we'll have this exact same code section
where we initialize all the parameters and variables of the engine Arnon class and then Same here it
will be exactly the same.
We will make a build model method which will create the engine on a model architecture itself and inside
will have three separate code sections.
Just like here the first one which will build the Arnon part of the NTN Arnon a second one which will
build the engine part of the engine Arnon and the third one which will implement the training operations
so that you can clearly see the structure of what we're implementing and take whenever you want a step
back to see the general process.
All right so let's do this.
And as you understood since the structure is going to be pretty similar as what we did here for the
VAB.
Well what we're going to do to be efficient is take everything from here to the top or up to here because
I already included the title in this new Arnon that wildfowl that I've just created.
All right so I'm going to take this.
And now we're going to replace the right things for our engine Arnon model which are going to be only
here because indeed we will use the same libraries none by intensive so to build our Indian Arnon models
nothing to change here.
But then we're building the design and d n r and then model within a class.
Then of course we'll change the name of the class and we will call it M.D and R and N then comes the
first code section where we initialize all the parameters and variables of the this time m d n r n n
class.
All right.
All good.
I always make sure to try as much as I can to create a framework so that we can you know switch from
one model to another in order to code efficiently.
So in the init method of course here we'll have to change the parameters because these parameters correspond
to the CNN be morrow.
And therefore I'm going to select everything here up to actually here because we will have these two
arguments for our engine aren't in class and therefore the future instances of this class.
But we will add a new one which will be H-P as and which will correspond to the hybrid parameters of
the endian Arnon model.
So don't worry about them now it's just that in the whole implementation there will be a hyper Bremner's
class which will gather in one same object all the hyper parameters of the MDA and aren't.
But we will actually see them when we build this huge method to create the engine Arnon model architecture
as well as the training operation.
So we will miss them.
And actually we will create some object Voyles of course for each of them.
So HP is here the hybrid parameters.
And now let's change what needs to be change here in order to make it fit to the engine our model.
But just before I'm going to replace it here by the end Arnon and here we go now let's initialize parameters
and variables of the engine aren't in class.
So I suggest that the way we do this is by just checking each of these lines of code one by one.
So that that size equals that size that was specific to the Wii.
So we'll just remove that then the batch size.
Are we going to have a batch size here.
Same that was specific to the Via e-mail then the learning rate.
Yes we're going to have a learning rate.
But of course this learning rate will be included in the hyper parameters.
So we will get the learning right from this ABS object and therefore we can just remove this and then
K.L. tolerance of course that was specific to the Wii then is training specific to the Wii as well.
And then reuse Yes we can keep it or we can also choose to not keep it.
But in that case we have to replace that we use here by just reuse.
And this reuse will be exactly this reuse argument here set by default equal to Fox.
All right.
And then before we build the variable scope for which will change the name of course.
Well we have to create one variable object which is Nabby's one which will contain all the hyper parameters
because remember the HP is here corresponding to the hyper parameters.
It's just an argument of the method therefore of the engine Arnon object.
When we create an instance of the engine or in class so we have to as usual create an HP s variable
object of the engine arland class which will be equal to what will be input in the object.
When creating an instance of the engine arning class.
All right.
So just as usual.
And then here comes the variables cope.
So of course you will replace the A C by and the end are and then and then reuse equals reuse because
we're not using a variable object that's optional then.
If not GBM mode meaning if we're not using AGP you then we're going to use instead CPQ which we specify
from the device function by sense of flow.
So all get here then we have the logging info which is just like a print saying that indeed our model
is using the Sibiu then here we are going to remove this.
We are going to create a new variable which will correspond to the graph just like what we did for the
Wii and we will create a new graph thanks to tons of flow the same way by calling tensor of so first
and then Frampton's of what we call the graph class so that this Selda g here more will be on the engine
on an object will be the graph for this engine.
And so that's something we are did before then.
Now we're going to connect all the hype of parameters of our energy and our own and moral to this graph
and the way we're going to do this is with in with again and we are going to specify that by default
this graph is going to be connected to all the hype of parameters and how are we going to make that
connection right here.
Well we will make it by including inside this graph.
The build model method which will create the whole Indian art and model architecture including the training
operations.
But as I told you we're not going to call this method build graph but this time build model.
And that's just to avoid confusion with what we implemented before for the V.A. and therefore what we
have to include here is just self taught build model taking as input the hyper parameters HP is and
therefore here besides the self we have to include of course the HP has hyper parameters as an argument
of this build model method.
Right so now everything is connected well.
We have this huge bill model method which will build the whole architecture of the engine Arnon and
it is well included inside this graph object variable g for the engine on it and then same in the else
we're going to do kind of the same thing we can keep plugging in for which we'll just specify that this
time.
Our model is using the GP you in this condition.
And then of course we will replace this self-taught build graph which was for the Wii by exactly what
we implemented here for the condition when we're using the Sibiu.
So let's just copy that again and let's replace this stuff that build grab by the connection to the
novel method.
And now let's just be careful with the evidence we have to do it this way that's the safe way.
All right.
And now get so perfect.
Now the initialization of the parameters and variables is done correctly.
And now we can move on to the big four of this implementation where we build the fool and then Arne
and Moe into the training operations.
So this is going to be a long code section which of course will divide in a couple of tutorials.
This whole implementation is about one hundred lines of code.
So again get some good energy.
Make sure you understand world intuition and the theory of the engine Arnon model and as soon as you're
ready let's tackle this together.
Until then enjoy AI.